Document switching from a native package to a static build (#20075)
netdata/netdata: docs/netdata-agent/versions-and-platforms.md

- eBPF related features

When platforms are removed from the [Binary Distribution Packages](/packaging/makeself/README.md) list, they default to install or update Netdata to a static build. This may mean that after platforms become EOL, Netdata on them may lose some of its features. We recommend upgrading the operating system before it becomes EOL, to continue using all the features of Netdata.

> ### Upgrading on an Unsupported Platform

Reviewer: @ralphm I'd argue the title is conflicting, there is a doc about upgrading Netdata, and having a section that instructs "Upgrading..." in another Doc might not be ideal.

What about the title of your PR?

```suggestion
### switching from a native package to a static build
```

Reviewer 2: I think title should be `Migrating from Native Package to Static Build`

Reviewer: These people would probably go to the upgrading doc, and not the versions doc though :thinking:

Author: My thinking was that when they find out that their platform is EOL, they'll immediately have those instructions. However, we can move it and leave a reference here?

Reviewer: I like "Migrating from Native Package to Static Build" as @ilyam8 says, and maybe @kanelatechnical can tell us about placing, since she is doing many more edits.

> Existing installs of native packages on a platform that is no longer supported, cannot be automatically updated at this time. The upgrader will show it is already at the newest version, because we no longer publish new packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing installs of native packages on a platform that is no longer supported, cannot be automatically updated. The upgrade process will show it is already at the newest version, because we no longer publish new packages for that platform.
```

Author: I put in "at this time", because we may want to automate it later (and then make it a supported operation).

Reviewer: Users don't need to worry/ be informed about this though

Author: In that case I will change it to "are not automatically updated".

> If the operating system cannot be upgraded to a more recent version, the install can be switched to a static build. This is a manual process, may cause data loss, and is therefore **not supported**. However, following these steps should result in a functioning Agent with metrics data and connection to Netdata Cloud in tact:

Reviewer: I would not state that something is not supported in the section instructing how to do it :thinking:

Author: Why not?  We dole out all kinds of instructions everywhere, including our forums. Having one place that documents how to do this, seems proper. The reason I say that it is unsupported, is because I don't want to carry the support burden for this. If it fails, they should wipe their install and start from scratch, and that obviously causes data loss and requires claiming the new node and clean up the old stuff in Cloud.

Reviewer: If I saw this as a user I would click out of this because "not supported" to me sounds like I am breaking the Agent at a 90% chance.

We can add something like this

> **Note**
>
> This process can cause data loss, and is a last-resort for systems that can't upgrade to the latest Netdata release.

wdyt? My point is on mentioning it inside the document as not supported.

Author: I don't understand the problem of saying that, yes, this is how you can do it, but no, we will not help you when it breaks.

> 1. Stop the Agent, as appropriate for your platform. For platforms with systemd:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Stop the Agent, [as appropriate for your platform](/docs/netdata-agent/start-stop-restart.md).
```

Let's not make duplicate instructions, we got a doc for service control

>    ```sh
>    sudo systemctl stop netdata
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2. Backup the contents of these directories: `/etc/netdata`, `/var/cache/netdata`, `/var/lib/netdata`, `/var/log/netdata`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Backup the contents of these directories: `/INSTALL_PREFIX/netdata`, `/var/cache/netdata`, `/var/lib/netdata`, `/var/log/netdata`.
```

Do native packages install _always_ on `/etc`? If yes, ignore this comment.

Author: Yes, they do.

3. Uninstall the native package, answering "yes" to all questions.

   ```sh
   wget -O /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh https://get.netdata.cloud/kickstart.sh && sh /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh --uninstall
   ```

> 4. Unmask the Netdata service for systemd:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

4. Unmask the Netdata service for systemd:
```

I believe the right way to be compliant in MD and MDX is a newline here, github is very flexible when it comes to rules

Author: Why? This is still part of the ordered list and it dedents?

Author: It appears that ChatGPT's rendering breaks on this :-) I'll fix it.

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl unmask netdata
   sudo systemctl daemon-reload

>    ```

Reviewer: Here we are again giving info about one specific tool for controlling the Netdata service, I believe this was something we were trying to avoid

cc @ilyam8

Author: Well, yes, but read the comment on the ticket to @Ferroin. Not doing this explicitly breaks the install afterwards. I.e. the service file will not work properly.

Reviewer: So that service is a systemd one, what happens if the system is not a systemd one? Maybe I am getting something wrong here

Author: I have not tested the procedure on a non-systemd install. Don't all native packages use systemd? Maybe except Amazon Linux 2.

The issue here is a workaround for a problem that we created when we added the masking in `postrm`. I don't know why we did this, I don't think it is proper, but until we change that, leaving off these instructions will simply break the install.

> 5. Install the static build:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

5. Install the static build:
```

   ```sh
   sh /tmp/netdata-kickstart.sh --static-only
   ```

> 6. Stop the Agent (again).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

6. Stop the Agent (again).
```

7. Copy over the data from the previous install:

   ```sh
   cd /opt/netdata
   sudo rsync -aRv --delete \
              --exclude /etc/netdata/.install-type \
              --exclude /etc/netdata/.environment \
              /etc/netdata /var/lib/netdata /var/cache/netdata /var/log/netdata ./
   ```

> 8. Start the Agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

8. Start the Agent.
```

>    ```sh
>    sudo systemctl start netdata
> 
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
